#labels Featured
#sidebar TableOfContents

=Get Started=
<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />
----

==DHEV In a nutshell==
The *Dynamic Hibernate EL Validator* project extends the usage of the Hibernate Validator framework within Seam, allowing developers to use of Expression Language strings to set validators' properties and limits (like min, max, etc.) at runtime.

This means you can change the validations without having to recompile the application but simple changing a row in the database, or clicking a button, or whatever you and your users prefer.

----
==Installation==
Download latest version of DHEV from the [https://code.google.com/p/dhev/downloads/list download] page: 
  * dhev-x.x.x.jar: it's the main jar, ready to be included in your project
  * dhev-all-x.x.x.zip: contains the main DHEV jar but also source code, api, and a full sample application which demonstrates all the most important features of this library.
Simply include dhev-x.x.x.jar as a lib in your project. If you're using Seam you should already have all the libraries DHEV depends on. 

----
==How it works==
Let's say in your application you have a _User_ bean with an _age_ field, and you want to have a validator to make sure the age is not more than a certain limit. Using DHEV you would write something like this:

{{{
//the User bean; it might also be annotated with jpa stuff, etc. etc.
import com.dhev.constraints.MaxEL;

public class User {

  @MaxEL(value = "#{systemConfiguration.maxAge}")
  private Integer age;
  
  //...
}

}}} 

When the validation is triggered, the method _getMaxAge()_ is invoked on the bean named _systemConfiguration_, and that value is used as the max value for the _age_. 

{{{
@Name("systemConfiguration")
public class SystemConfiguration{
   ...
   public long getMaxAge(){
      //you might read this value from a properties file or from db
      return 21;
   }
   ...
}
}}}

----
==Run the sample application==
In the dhev-all-x.x.x.zip is included a sample application which gives a good demonstration of all the features of DHEV.After unzipping the file, do one of the following:
  * Manual deploy: copy /sample/dist/dhev-example.ear and /sample/resources/dhev-ds.xml into the deploy folder of your jboss installation
  * Ant: edit /sample/build.properties and change the _jboss.dir_ and _jboss.server_ properties to that they point to your jboss installation. Then open a console in the /sample folder and type "ant deploy"

The application has been tested on jboss 4 and 5, either with jdk 5 and 6, with no problems.
----
==Only for Seam?==
TODO

----
==License==
TODO